=head1 NAME

passwd_change - Change a user's Kerberos password

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<passwd_change> I<user>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<passwd_change> changes the password for I<user>, who may be someone
other than the person running the program.  It may only be run by
authorized users (normally Help Desk personnel); all others will receive
an error message.  The person running the program must have a valid ticket
cache when running it and will be asked to reauthenticate as a security
precaution.  Then, I<user> will be checked against the user database (in
the form of a unified passwd file) and the user's full name will be
displayed for verification if found.  When changing the password for an
account not listed in the passwd file, the user will not be found but one
can elect to continue anyway.  Finally, the user is prompted for the new
password (twice).

This program uses the remctl protocol to talk to a central server to do
the password change.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<passwd_change> needs four configuration parameters: The full path to a
passwd file listing all of the local users (used only to get full names
for verification that one got the right account), the service principal to
use to authenticate to the password changing service, the host on which
the password changing service is running, and the port on which the
service is running.  Defaults for these values are set at compilation
time, but they can be overridden in the F</etc/krb5.conf> file (or
wherever F<krb5.conf> path the Kerberos libraries were compiled to use).

B<passwd_change> looks for a C<passwd_change> section in the [appdefaults]
section of F<krb5.conf> and supports the following configuration options:

=over 4

=item passwd_file

The full path to a passwd file listing users.  This file should be
structured like a normal Unix F</etc/passwd> file; all fields except
username and full name are ignored.  This file is used only to retrieve
the user's full name as a verification step that the correct account's
password is being changed.

=item port

The port on which the password changing service is running.  The default
value is 4443.

=item server

The host on which the password changing service is running.

=item service_principal

The Kerberos service for which to get credentials before changing
passwords.  This should match the Kerberos principal used by the
B<remctld> running the password changing service.

=back

For example, here is the configuration for Stanford:

    [appdefaults]
        passwd_change = {
            passwd_file       = /afs/ir/service/etc/passwd.all
            server            = password-change.stanford.edu
            port              = 4443
            service_principal = service/password-change@stanford.edu
        }

=head1 BUGS

The business of getting the target user's full name from a password file
is an ugly hack that only happens to work at Stanford for legacy reasons.
A saner method should be used, like querying an LDAP server.

=head1 SEE ALSO

kadmin-backend(8), kpasswd(1), passwd(5), remctl(1), remctld(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>

=cut
